[DOC] Add new doc for grok processor (#5019)
opensearch-project/documentation-website: _api-reference/ingest-apis/processors/grok.md

---
layout: default
title: Grok
parent: Ingest processors
grand_parent: Ingest pipelines
nav_order: 140
---

# Grok 

> The `grok` processor is used to parse and extract structured data from unstructured data. It is useful in log analytics and data processing pipelines where data is often in a raw and unformatted state. The `grok` processor uses a combination of pattern matching and regular expressions to identify and extract information from the input text. The Grok processor is based on the [`java-grok`](https://mvnrepository.com/artifact/io.krakens/java-grok) library and supports all compatible patterns. The `java-grok` library is built using the [java.util.regex](https://docs.oracle.com/javase/8/docs/api/java/util/regex/package-summary.html) regular expression library. The processor supports a range of predefined patterns for common data types such as timestamps, IP addresses, and usernames. The `grok` processor can perform transformations on extracted data, such as converting a timestamp to a proper date field. 

Author: Revised to remove redundancy.

## Configuration parameters

To configure the `grok` processor, you have various options that allow you to define patterns, match specific keys, and control the processor's behavior. The following table lists the required and optional parameters for the `grok` processor.

Parameter | Required | Description |
|-----------|-----------|-----------|
`field`  | Required  | The name of the field to which the data should be parsed. <Does it support template snippets?>|
`patterns`  | Required  | A list of grok expressions used to match and extract named captures. The first expression in the list that matches is returned. | 
`description` | Optional | A brief description of the processor. |
`if` | Optional | A condition for running this processor. |
`ignore_failure` | Optional | If set to `true`, failures are ignored. Default is `false`. |
`ignore_missing` | Optional | If set to `true`, the processor does not modify the document if the field does not exist or is `null`. Default is `false`. |
`on_failure` | Optional | A list of processors to run if the processor fails. |

> `pattern_definitions`  | Optional  | A dictionary of pattern names and pattern tuples (a pair of a pattern name, which is a string that identifies the pattern, and a pattern, which is the string that specifies the pattern itself) is used to define custom patterns for the current processor. If a pattern matches an existing name, it overrides the pre-existing definition. |

Reviewer: move `pattern_definitions` and `trace_match` next to `patterns` as these are specific parameters to grok processor whereas `if`, `description`, `ignore_failrue`, `ignore_missing`, and `on_failure` are general parameter for all processors.

`tag` | Optional | An identifier tag for the processor. Useful for debugging to distinguish between processors of the same type. |

> `trace_match` | Optional | When `_ingest._grok_match_index` is set to `true`, the matched document's metadata will contain the index into the pattern found in patterns that match. |

Reviewer: This is wrong. There is no such thing like setting `_ingest._grok_match_indx` as `true`
Recommend to test this option and see how it works as I am also not super familiar with this option.

```suggestion
`trace_match` | Optional | when set as `true`, `_ingest._grok_match_index` will be inserted into your matched document's metadata with... |
```

Author: Revised and tested. See the updated doc.

POST _ingest/pipeline/log_line/_simulate
{
  "docs": [
    {
      "_source": {
        "message": "127.0.0.1 198.126.12 10/Oct/2000:13:55:36 -0700 200"
      }
    }
  ]
}
```
{% include copy-curl.html %}

#### Response

The following response confirms that the pipeline is working as expected:

```json
{
  "docs": [
    {
      "doc": {
        "_index": "_index",
        "_id": "_id",
        "_source": {
          "message": "127.0.0.1 198.126.12 10/Oct/2000:13:55:36 -0700 200",
          "response_status": 200,
          "clientip": "198.126.12",
          "timestamp": "10/Oct/2000:13:55:36 -0700"
        },
        "_ingest": {
          "timestamp": "2023-09-13T21:41:52.064540505Z"
        }
      }
    }
  ]
}
```

**Step 3: Ingest a document.**

The following query ingests a document into an index named `testindex1`:

```json
PUT testindex1/_doc/1?pipeline=log_line
{
  "message": "127.0.0.1 198.126.12 10/Oct/2000:13:55:36 -0700 200"
}
```
{% include copy-curl.html %}

**Step 4 (Optional): Retrieve the document.**

To retrieve the document, run the following query:

```json
GET testindex1/_doc/1
```
{% include copy-curl.html %}

## Tailoring grok with custom patterns

> Custom grok patterns can be used in a pipeline to extract structured data from log messages that do not match the built-in grok patterns. This can be useful for parsing log messages from custom applications or for parsing log messages that have been modified in some way. Custom patterns adhere to a straightforward structure: each pattern has a unique name and the corresponding regular expression that defines its matching behavior.These custom patterns can be incorporated into the `grok` processor using the `pattern_definitons` parameter. This parameter accepts a dictionary where the keys represent the pattern names and the values represent the corresponding regular expressions. When debugging custom patterns, the [Grok Debugger](https://grokdebugger.com/) can be helpful. 

Reviewer: [Grok Debugger](https://grokdebugger.com/) is not right tool to use here. We, OpenSearch, don't have a tool to debug.

```suggestion
Custom grok patterns can be used in a pipeline to extract structured data from log messages that do not match the built-in grok patterns. This can be useful for parsing log messages from custom applications or for parsing log messages that have been modified in some way. Custom patterns adhere to a straightforward structure: each pattern has a unique name and the corresponding regular expression that defines its matching behavior.These custom patterns can be incorporated into the `grok` processor using the `pattern_definitons` parameter. This parameter accepts a dictionary where the keys represent the pattern names and the values represent the corresponding regular expressions.
```

The following is an example of how to include a custom pattern in your configuration. In this example, `MY_CUSTOM_PATTERN` is defined and subsequently used in the `patterns` list, which tells grok to look for this pattern in the log message. The pattern is a regular expression that matches any sequence of alphanumeric characters and captures the matched characters into the `my_field`.

```json
{
   "processors":[
      {
         "grok":{
            "field":"message",
            "patterns":[
               "%{MY_CUSTOM_PATTERN:my_field}"
            ],
            "pattern_definitions":{

>                "MY_CUSTOM_PATTERN":"(?<my_data>[a-zA-Z0-9]+)"

Reviewer: Please test this feature. 
```suggestion
               "MY_CUSTOM_PATTERN":"([a-zA-Z0-9]+)"
```

Author: Tested. Response: 
{
  "acknowledged": true
}
